What does it mean to be
a Full Stack engineer?
Anybody?
Take a stab at it.
>> Having like full responsibility for
data input,
handling and representation to the user.
>> Yeah, full responsibility for
data input, and data, yeah I like that.
Any other interpretations?
>> One who can do a bit of everything.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Generalist.
>> Proficient in all aspects
of modern computing.
>> I like the proficient,
but I'll be honest,
it is almost impossible to be really
really good at all these things.
Almost every topic here is so nuanced and
has so much complexity underlying it that
your best chance is to understand
all these systems, and
be able to put them together.
But to be called an expert or anything
like that is very difficult proposition.
There's probably only a few people in the
world who have that level of expertise.
And again, that's okay,
that's totally okay.
I just want you all to understand
how all these systems tie together.
Take the interesting parts for yourself,
but if nothing else, by the end,
you will be familiar.
And when you see these concepts in terms,
you'll be like, okay.
I don't necessarily remember
how to implement it myself, but
I remember I've done it before, and
I understand how they work and
the role they play in the broader system.
And someone said generalists,
that's what I like.
I like that term generalists, someone
that can do a little bit of everything.
Again, you don't have to be an expert, but
it just means you can put it all together.
>> The Full Stack engineer
can implement and
develop the whole life cycle
of the web app website.
Jack of all trades Master of None.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Full Stack engineer is someone who
builds a complete working app
Full Stack technology refers to the entire
depth of a computer system application.
And Full Stack web developers
are those who are capable
of developing both frontend and
backend of the web.
A Swiss Army coder.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Someone who can understand the big
picture and uncover all that was needed
to deliver the software alone or entity.
Having an understanding of
all pieces of the stack
Is a tongue in cheek one in here someone
who can barely put together half
working software
>> [LAUGH] That's true too.
>> [LAUGH] The entire IT department.
>> [LAUGH] So
say IT is different from Full Stack,
but there's some overlap
there suprissingly enough.
Those are all good answers I still
like the generalist jack of all
trades with Army Knife etc.
Because it emphasizes the point that you
don't have to be an expert all these
systems.
You're not gonna be an expert
in all these systems.
But you just need to understand
how they fit together, and
then find out who to talk to you
when you do need an expert system.
So what is Full Stack engineer?
What is a stack?
Don't worry I won't talk to the audience
because who knows where we're gonna go
with that one.
But a stack I generally consider
is some sort of user interface.
Otherwise, what are you building,
if people can't interact with it,
a web server.
If we're talking specifically about web
applications here which we are, a database
of some kind, the operating system,
something a lot of people don't consider,
we just take for granted,
but they exist, on every UI,
there's some sort of operating system
underneath it, and an application server.
Application server depends on the stack,
whether or not you need one.
But I consider this a pretty
good definition of a stack.
But again, the term will vary wildly.
There's a few popular stacks.
You may have heard of the LAMP
stack anybody, LAMP stack?
Yeah, funny enough,
the most popular stack in the world.
But a lot of frontend engineers are like,
what's Apache?
What's PHP?
PHP, what's my SQL?
Generally considered
a WordPress stack which again I
think a lot of us writing code in
our day to day writing react forget.
WordPress is still by far the most
popular way of creating a web page on
the internet.
There's the MEAN stack, Mongo,
Express, Angular, Node.JS.
There's the MERN stack which is probably
a little bit newer Mongo, Express,
React, Node.JS.
You're saying Jem how did these cool names
like MEAN and MERN come about marketing.
No, I'm joking, but
like, I'm also serious.
These stacks are kind of arbitrary.
The names they put together are arbitrary.
It's really about marketers,
developer advocates,
fanboys putting together these terms.
So if someone is like, You're not using
the MEAN stack, don't, bother with them.
It doesn't matter what your stack is
really, as long as you're familiar with it
and you're comfortable and there's
a million different acronyms we can make.
So generally a good, not a good, but
a common friend in stack is Reacts,
NodeJS and Redis.
That's fairly popular one.
Another one that may be
a little less popular, or
at least that a lot of people haven't
heard of is Angular, Tomcat, and MySQL.
Anybody heard of Tomcat?
>> No.
>> Yeah, what is it?
>> Web server.
>> Yeah.
>> Basically.
>> For Java yeah, very popular
application server or web server.
But Friend Engineers, we probably haven't
heard about that because we consider that
a backend thing, but it's really not.
It's powering our websites.
Then there's an interesting, one Vue,
Apache and Postgres all right?
So again, it doesn't really
matter what your stack is.
So you say Full Stack I'm not referring
to any particular set of technologies.
It's whatever you're comfortable with and
whatever the people you're working
with are comfortable with,
that you can cobble together and
make an application that's good enough.
So, a Full Stack Engineer is just an
engineer who can manage both the frontend
and the backend of an application.
Someone that can tie it all together,
someone that understands
how those systems work.
That's it, nothing super spicy or
worthy of Twitter, unfortunately,
unlike some of the responses we got.